---
layout: post
title: Solution of the puzzle Mime Type
---

In this puzzle, I will show you a new datastrucutre in Haskell: the Map. I will also show you how to perform basic operations on strings.

### Description

The goal of this puzzle is to find the mime type for a list of files. An associative array with the mime type associated to a file extension is given at the beginning.

### Solution

First, I created a Map with the list of mime types and extensions. Why use a Map datastructure? Because in a Map, it costs O(1) time to find an element while with a list it costs O(n) to find an element. This is important to pass the last test where n is really big.
After, I created a function that finds the extension of file.
To finish, I created a function that finds the mime type thanks to the extension of the file and the Map object created before.

## The creation of the Map object
As there are some functions like `map` that exist both in the standard library and in the Data.Map module, I do a qualified import `import qualified Data.Map as Map`. So if I want to use the `map` function from the Data.Map module I write `Map.map`.
I created a list with the pairs (extension, mime type) and then I convert this list into a Map object with the function fromList.

{% gist 269537fb41f14fa94b6bff3ddff9b6a2 %}

## The function giveExtFile
This function has two guards. If there is a dot in the filename then it extracts the extension otherwise it returns "noextension". 
In the case a file has an extension. It decomposes the filename in a list of strings on the dot. In order to do that I use the function `splitOn` that splits a string on the specified delimiter. After that I want to take the last part and to put in lowercase.

## The function getMimeType
This function works the same way as the giveExtFile. It has two guards. Either the file has a mime type corresponding to it and then it displays otherwise it displays "UNKNOWN".
In order to find the mime type corresponding to the extension. I use the lookup function that returns the associated value to the key when the key is present in the Map otherwise it returns Nothing.

{% gist 4d2c8e6b48eb5cea71082f23b6db97ea %}

## Conclusion
The Map datastructure is easy is to use and very powerful compared to lists for retrieving objects.
You can find the complete solution [here](https://github.com/siminio/Codingame/blob/master/easy/mimeTypes.hs)
